---
layout: default
title: "Authors Information"
menu_show: true
permalink: /:collection/authors
---
{% assign edition = site.collections | where: "label", page.collection | first %}

## Paper Preparation

Papers should present novel contributions and should not have been submitted for publication elsewhere. Papers must be prepared using the Springer LNCS style. It is required to use a [Spinger LNCS Proceedings template file](https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines).

Papers must be written in English with a minimum length of {{edition.min_pagelimit}} pages and a maximum length of {{edition.max_pagelimit}} pages, including text, references, appendices and figures.

PECS uses <u>double-blind peer review</u>, i.e. the identity of authors and reviewers will not be revealed to each other. Thus all information that may allow to identify the authors must be removed from the submitted paper, like authors’ names and affiliations, acknowledgments, funding information, and all references to the authors’ work that may disclose their identity. This information can be later added to accepted papers. 

## Paper Submission

All papers must be submitted using [EasyChair submission system]({{edition.submission_link} target="_blank"}).


## Paper Reviewing

Submitted papers will undergo a double-blind review process, i.e. the identity of authors and referees will not be revealed to each other.


## Paper Publication

Only the accepted papers presented at the workshop will be published in the final proceedings by Springer in the LNCS series.

## Important Dates

{% include_relative _important_dates.md %}
