---
layout: default
title: "Call for Papers"
menu_show: true
permalink: /:collection/cfp
---

{% assign edition = site.collections | where: "label", page.collection | first %}

{% include_relative _introduction_text.md %}

PECS aims to establish a venue for both academia and industry to discuss challenges and perspectives, and to explore methods, techniques and tools, for energy efficiency and performance analysis and optimization in concurrent and distributed systems.

PECS calls for high-quality research papers on all aspects of energy efficiency, performance and their interrelations in concurrent and/or distributed computing systems, focusing on (but not limited to) the following topics:

 - Energy efficiency and performance analysis, modeling and evaluation in concurrent and distributed systems and architectures 
 - Energy-Aware programming and green software design methods for concurrent and distributed systems     
 - Energy efficiency and performance trade-offs in parallel and distributed AI model training and inference
 - GreenOps for concurrent and distributed software systems and architectures
 - Analysis and optimization of energy efficiency and performance in heterogeneous computing architectures
 - Energy-efficient and performance optimized algorithms and frameworks for (Big) Data Processing
 - Energy efficiency in high-performance computing platforms and applications
 - Energy efficiency and performance aspects in Cloud, IoT, Edge, Fog computing, and Computing Continuum
 - Approaches and techniques for improving energy efficiency and performance in data management and services
 - Energy efficiency and performance evaluation and optimization in operating systems, networks and virtualized systems
 - Energy impact evaluation and optimization in concurrent and distributed algorithms for cybersecurity 
 

{{site.title}} is colocated with the 32th International European Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing ([Euro-PAR](https://2026.euro-par.org/){:target="_blank"}).

## Important Dates

{% include_relative _important_dates.md %}


## Paper Submission

All papers must be submitted using [EasyChair submission system]({{edition.submission_link}}){:target="_blank"}.


## Paper Preparation

Papers should present novel contributions and should not have been submitted for publication elsewhere. Papers must be written in English, with a minimum length of {{edition.min_pagelimit}} pages and a maximum length of {{edition.max_pagelimit}} pages, including text, references, appendices and figures. Papers with less than {{edition.min_pagelimit}} pages are considered short and can be presented at the workshop, but they will not appear in the workshop proceedings. Papers should be formatted according to [Spinger LNCS Proceedings Guidelines](https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines){:target="_blank"}.

PECS employs a <u>double-blind peer review process</u>, i.e., the identities of authors and reviewers are not disclosed to each other. Therefore, all information that may allow authors to be identified must be removed from the submitted papers. In particular, this includes author names and affiliations, acknowledgments, funding information, and any references to authors' previous work that may reveal their identity. Furthermore, authors should ensure that PDF metadata does not contain identifying information. All the above details may be added later to accepted papers. Submissions that fail to adhere to these anonymity requirements may be rejected without review.

Authors are encouraged to ensure their submitted papers clearly outline the following aspects: 

- Motivation of the research
- Limitations of existing studies, approaches, or solutions
- Novel contributions of the paper
- Methodology and tools employed in the study
- Availability of artifacts, datasets, orother tools to support reproducibility (where applicable)
- Validity and limitations of the proposed study

Reviewers will take these aspects into account during the evaluation process.

Any use of AI-generated content, including text, images, data, etc, must be disclosed in a specific section (for example, in a section at the end of the paper entitled "Information on AI-Generated Content"), except in cases where AI tools are used solely for improving presentation, such as for grammatical corrections or syntactic checks. Authors are solely responsible for the content of their papers.


## Paper Publication

Workshop proceedings will be published in a dedicated Springer LNCS volume. Only accepted papers presented at the workshop will be published in the workshop proceedings (excluding short papers). At least one author per paper is required to register for the workshop.


