---
layout: default
title: "Authors Information"
menu_show: true
permalink: /:collection/authors
---
{% assign edition = site.collections | where: "label", page.collection | first %}

## Paper Submission

All papers must be submitted using [EasyChair submission system]({{edition.submission_link}}){:target="_blank"}.


## Paper Preparation

PECS believes that energy plays a fundamental role in modern computer systems. Therefore, papers focusing exclusively on performance, while completely ignoring energy aspects, will be rejected before the review process. Papers are expected to include at least some type of measurements and/or relevant considerations related to energy.

Papers should present novel contributions and should not have been submitted for publication elsewhere. Papers must be written in English, with a minimum length of {{edition.min_pagelimit}} pages and a maximum length of {{edition.max_pagelimit}} pages, including text, references, appendices and figures. Papers with less than {{edition.min_pagelimit}} pages are considered short and can be presented at the workshop, but they will not appear in the workshop proceedings. Papers should be formatted according to [Spinger LNCS Proceedings Guidelines](https://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines){:target="_blank"}.

PECS employs a <u>double-blind peer review process</u>, i.e., the identities of authors and reviewers are not disclosed to each other. Therefore, all information that may allow authors to be identified must be removed from the submitted papers. In particular, this includes author names and affiliations, acknowledgments, funding information, and any references to authors' previous work that may reveal their identity. Furthermore, authors should ensure that PDF metadata does not contain identifying information. All the above details may be added later to accepted papers. Submissions that fail to adhere to these anonymity requirements may be rejected without review.

Authors are encouraged to ensure their papers clearly outline the following aspects: 

- Motivation of the presented research study
- Limitations of existing studies, approaches, or solutions
- Novel contributions of the paper
- Methodology and tools employed in the study
- Availability of artifacts, datasets, or other tools to support reproducibility (where applicable)
- Validity and limitations of the proposed study

Reviewers will take these aspects into account during the evaluation process.

Any use of AI-generated content, including text, images, data, etc, must be disclosed in a specific section (for example, in a section at the end of the paper entitled "Information on AI-Generated Content"), except in cases where AI tools are used solely for improving presentation, such as for grammatical corrections or syntactic checks. Authors are solely responsible for the content of their papers.


## Paper Publication

Workshop proceedings will be published in a dedicated Springer LNCS volume. Only accepted papers presented at the workshop will be published in the workshop proceedings (excluding short papers). At least one author per paper is required to register for the workshop.


## Important Dates

{% include_relative _important_dates.md %}
