---
layout: default
title: "Authors Information"
menu_show: true
permalink: /:collection/authors
---
{% assign edition = site.collections | where: "label", page.collection | first %}

## Important Dates

{% include_relative _important_dates.md %}

## Paper Preparation

Papers must be prepared by using an official [ACM Master Article Template](https://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template). Template files for Microsoft Word and LaTeX2e are provided at this website. Please make sure that your paper strictly adheres to the ACM Master Article Template formatting style by using one of the provided template files.

Papers must be written in English. Submissions should use ACM conference proceedings format (double column, single space). The page limit is {{edition.pagelimit}} pages including references (up to {{edition.short_pagelimit}} pages including references for short papers). <u>Reviews are double-blind</u>, thus all identifying information must be removed from the manuscript: this includes removing authors' names and affiliations, acknowledgments, funding information, and all references to the authors' work that would disclose their identity. This information can be later added to accepted manuscripts.

## Paper Submission

Papers must be unpublished and must not be submitted for publication elsewhere. Each submission must be accompanied by the following information:

- a short abstract,
- a complete list of authors and their affiliations,
- a contact person for correspondence, and
- postal and email addresses.

Papers must be submitted using the EasyChair submission system:

[Click here to access the EasyChair website to submit your paper]({{edition.submission_link}}).


## Paper Reviewing

All submissions will be reviewed using a <u>double-blind review process</u>, i.e., the identity of authors and referees will not be revealed to each other. To ensure blind reviewing, authors' names and affiliations should not appear in the paper, and bibliographic references should be suitably modified.

## Paper Publication

All accepted papers will be published within the ICPE proceedings that will be included in the [ACM Digital Library](https://dl.acm.org/).
